# knn_project
## Introduction:
The software in question is based on the KNN ( k-nearest neighbors ) algorithm.
The detailed explanation of the KNN algorithm is present in the user guide available to the user in the "Introduction" section.
We have created the project using the different classes provided by the teacher. In this way the code has been divided by diversifying the various functions in several distinct classes.
The program initially acquires the mode with which the user wants to load the training set into memory, that is, the table that will be used as a reference base for calculating the prediction. The acquisition modes are: text file, binary file and database.
Subsequently the user will enter the name of the file in case he has selected text file or binary file as the acquisition mode, or the name of the table in case he has chosen to acquire the training set from the database (the name of the database is instead set by default to "map", as explained in the installation guide provided to the user).
The user will then be asked to enter the values ​​corresponding to the independent columns that can be discrete or continuous, where discrete means the insertion of a character and continuous of a numeric value.
Finally, based on the table loaded into memory and the query point inserted, a prediction corresponding to the value of the dependent column of the query point inserted by the user will be generated.

## Differences compared to the original project:
The original project, on the client side, contains only what was created by the teacher, therefore only the Client class. Instead, the extension we created adds several new classes divided into packages containing: a .fxml file for the creation of a graphical interface page, a .java file containing the functions and attributes corresponding to the .fxml page present in the same package, the .jpg images present on the .fxml page of the same package.
The client.java file will handle communication with the server and will be called from time to time in the .java files contained in the package. The difference between client.java present in the original version provided by the teacher and our version is in the “talking” method which is no longer called within the client constructor and is instead divided into several functions: “talking1”, “talking2”, “talking3”, “talking4” and “talking5”. They are called when necessary in the controller.java files present in the various packages.
Therefore, compared to the original version, in order to start the client, it is necessary to execute the main method of the app.java class and no longer the main method of the client.java class.
Another difference with the original version can be found within the method of acquiring the training set through the database, in fact the extended version provides authentication via username and password on the MySql Server present on the machine on which the program is being run.
A further difference is found in the possibility of being able to view a brief introduction to the software containing the algorithm on which it is based and its use.
On the server side, the difference between the original project and our extended project is in the “readexample” method, where the server initially communicated to the user what type of input the user had to type and acquired it immediately afterwards; while in the extended version the server first communicates the corresponding type for each column and, once the columns are finished, acquires the input from the user. This change was made only for a graphical issue, since we write the printout of the request for all the columns in a single page on the client side. Given the introduction of database authentication in the client side, we have consequently added an additional input control cycle within the “run” method of serveroneclient.
